admin/README.md, before:

# c2cgeoportal_admin

## Run with docker

To build:
```
make docker-build
```

To build & run the application:
```
make docker-serve
```

Open http://localhost:8888/

The following views are also provided by `c2cwsgiutils`:
 * http://localhost:8888/versions.json
 * http://localhost:8888/stats.json
 * http://localhost:8888/health_check?max_level=3


## Run without docker


### Checkout

```
git clone git@github.com:camptocamp/c2cgeoportal.git
cd admin
```

### Set up the database
```
sudo -u postgres psql -c "CREATE USER \"www-data\" WITH PASSWORD 'www-data';"

DATABASE=c2cgeoportal
sudo -u postgres psql -c "CREATE DATABASE $DATABASE WITH OWNER \"www-data\";"
sudo -u postgres psql -d $DATABASE -c "CREATE EXTENSION postgis;"
```

Optionally update sqlachemy.url in development.ini or production.ini then:
```
use common/testing/initialized.py to create the database
use demo-dump.sql to create and populate the database (demo data)
```

### Run the development web server
```
make serve
```

Open http://localhost:6543/users/

## Run the tests

### Install the selenium chrome driver

https://sites.google.com/a/chromium.org/chromedriver/downloads

### Requires Chrome Version > 65

### Create the test database
```
sudo -u postgres psql -c "CREATE USER \"www-data\" WITH PASSWORD 'www-data';"

DATABASE=geomapfish_tests
sudo -u postgres psql -c "CREATE DATABASE $DATABASE WITH OWNER \"www-data\";"
sudo -u postgres psql -d $DATABASE -c "CREATE EXTENSION postgis;"
```

### Run the tests
```
make test
```

Note that you can run all tests but selenium ones (really fast):
```
.build/venv/bin/pytest -m "not selenium"
```

Commit message:

Prevent caching of admin pages (#3760)
* Prevent caching of admin grid.json requests

* Register the tween

* Update .gitignore

* Fix admin readme

* Prevent caching of admin pages

There is no reason to cache admin pages.
As a bonus, it fixes an issue with IE11.

* Fix linter

* Fix yamllint checks

* Handle admin prefix in cache tween

* Specify there are 2 ways to create the admin DB

* Fix typo

* Add missing / to route prefix

admin/README.md, after:

# c2cgeoportal_admin

### Checkout

```
git clone git@github.com:camptocamp/c2cgeoportal.git
cd admin
```

### Set up the database
```
sudo -u postgres psql -c "CREATE USER \"www-data\" WITH PASSWORD 'www-data';"

DATABASE=c2cgeoportal
sudo -u postgres psql -c "CREATE DATABASE $DATABASE WITH OWNER \"www-data\";"
sudo -u postgres psql -d $DATABASE -c "CREATE EXTENSION postgis;"
```

Optionally update sqlachemy.url in development.ini or production.ini then:
```
admin/.build/venv/bin/python3 commons/c2cgeoportal_commons/testing/initializedb.py # to create the database
# or
sudo -u postgres psql -d c2cgeoportal -f ./docker/demo-dump.sql # to create and populate the database (demo data)
```

### Run the development web server
```
make serve
```

Open http://localhost:6543/users/

## Run the tests

### Install the selenium chrome driver

https://sites.google.com/a/chromium.org/chromedriver/downloads

### Requires Chrome Version > 65

### Create the test database
```
sudo -u postgres psql -c "CREATE USER \"www-data\" WITH PASSWORD 'www-data';"

DATABASE=geomapfish_tests
sudo -u postgres psql -c "CREATE DATABASE $DATABASE WITH OWNER \"www-data\";"
sudo -u postgres psql -d $DATABASE -c "CREATE EXTENSION postgis;"
```

### Run the tests
```
make test
```

Note that you can run all tests but selenium ones (really fast):
```
.build/venv/bin/pytest -m "not selenium"
```
