doc/integrator/backend_qgis.rst, before:

.. _integrator_backend_qgis:

=========================================
Specific configuration for QGIS mapserver
=========================================

Viewer configuration
====================

In the ``<package>/templates/viewer.js`` file, define the url of the WFS service
which will be used to get the namespace required to parse the WFS response,
and indicate that we don't want duplicate layer name above the legend::

    cgxp.WMS_FEATURE_NS = "http://www.qgis.org/gml";
    cgxp.LEGEND_INCLUDE_LAYER_NAME = false;

Change the DPI value to use the same as in the server::

    - OpenLayers.DOTS_PER_INCH = 92;
    + OpenLayers.DOTS_PER_INCH = 2.54 / 100 / 0.00028;

In the ``cgxp_print`` plugin add the following configuration:

.. code:: javascript

   encodeLayer: { useNativeAngle: true, serverType: 'qgisserver' }
   encodeExternalLayer: { useNativeAngle: true, serverType: 'qgisserver' }


Apache configuration
====================

In the ``apache/mapserv.conf.mako`` do the following changes:

.. code::

   - ScriptAlias /${instanceid}/mapserv /usr/lib/cgi-bin/mapserv
   + ScriptAlias /${instanceid}/mapserv /usr/lib/cgi-bin/qgis_mapserv.fcgi

   - SetEnv MS_MAPFILE ${directory}/mapserver/c2cgeoportal.map
   + SetEnv QGIS_PROJECT_FILE ${directory}/qgisserver.qgs

Application configuration
=========================

In the ``vars_<project>.yaml`` file, define:

.. code:: yaml

    vars:
        ...
            mapserverproxy:
                mapserv_url: http://your.qgis.server/ows
                geoserver: false
    update_paths:
    ...
    - mapserverproxy

Cleanup
=======

Remove the mapserver folder:

.. prompt:: bash

   git rm mapserver

QGIS Desktop configuration
==========================

OWS configuration
*****************

You should setup your OWS service in the QGIS project properties in the OWS
tab.

You should take care to **uncheck** the checkbox *User Layer ids as names*. If
this checkbox is enabled you will have unreliabel layers name.

You should **check** the checkbox *Add geometry to feature response* in order
to make the WMS GetFeatureInfo working correctly.

In the *WFS capabilities* section, you should check the layers that need to be
available in the WFS service.

Finally, your QGIS project layers CRS should all be in the same CSR. This is subject to
change.

Connect to Postgres database
*****************************

This section is subject to change when the QGIS plugin is available.

Throw a tunnel
---------------

The first solution is to create a tunnel with ssh:

.. prompt:: bash

   ssh -L 5432:localhost:54532 <server>

And use the following connection attributes::

   Name: <aname>
   Host: localhost
   Port: 5432
   Database: <database>
   SSL mode: Disable
   Username: www-data
   Password: www-data

Directly on the server
----------------------

For that you should ask the sysadmins to be able to access to the
postgres port on the server from your infra.

Then use the following connection attributes::

   Name: <aname>
   Host: <server>
   Port: 5432
   Database: <database>
   SSL mode: require
   Username: www-data
   Password: www-data

Deploy notes
************

TODO

Commit message:

WMS/WFS query to QGIS server will pass through the mapserv proxy

doc/integrator/backend_qgis.rst, after:

.. _integrator_backend_qgis:

=========================================
Specific configuration for QGIS mapserver
=========================================

Viewer configuration
====================

In the ``<package>/templates/viewer.js`` file, define the url of the WFS service
which will be used to get the namespace required to parse the WFS response,
and indicate that we don't want duplicate layer name above the legend::

    cgxp.WMS_FEATURE_NS = "http://www.qgis.org/gml";
    cgxp.LEGEND_INCLUDE_LAYER_NAME = false;

Change the DPI value to use the same as in the server::

    - OpenLayers.DOTS_PER_INCH = 92;
    + OpenLayers.DOTS_PER_INCH = 2.54 / 100 / 0.00028;

In the ``cgxp_print`` plugin add the following configuration:

.. code:: javascript

   encodeLayer: { useNativeAngle: true, serverType: 'qgisserver' }
   encodeExternalLayer: { useNativeAngle: true, serverType: 'qgisserver' }


Apache configuration
====================

In the ``apache/mapserv.conf.mako`` do the following changes:

.. code::

   - ScriptAlias /${instanceid}/mapserv /usr/lib/cgi-bin/mapserv
   + ScriptAlias /${instanceid}/mapserv /usr/lib/cgi-bin/qgis_mapserv.fcgi

   - SetEnv MS_MAPFILE ${directory}/mapserver/c2cgeoportal.map
   + SetEnv QGIS_PROJECT_FILE ${directory}/qgisserver.qgs

Application configuration
=========================

Add an OGC server in the admin interface for QGIS server (type: qgisserver, auth: Standard auth).

In the ``vars_<project>.yaml`` file, define:

.. code:: yaml

    vars:
        ...
        mapserverproxy:
            default_ogc_server: <ogc server name>
    update_paths:
    ...
    - mapserverproxy

Cleanup
=======

Remove the mapserver folder:

.. prompt:: bash

   git rm mapserver

QGIS Desktop configuration
==========================

OWS configuration
*****************

You should setup your OWS service in the QGIS project properties in the OWS
tab.

You should take care to **uncheck** the checkbox *User Layer ids as names*. If
this checkbox is enabled you will have unreliabel layers name.

You should **check** the checkbox *Add geometry to feature response* in order
to make the WMS GetFeatureInfo working correctly.

In the *WFS capabilities* section, you should check the layers that need to be
available in the WFS service.

Finally, your QGIS project layers CRS should all be in the same CSR. This is subject to
change.

Connect to Postgres database
*****************************

This section is subject to change when the QGIS plugin is available.

Throw a tunnel
---------------

The first solution is to create a tunnel with ssh:

.. prompt:: bash

   ssh -L 5432:localhost:54532 <server>

And use the following connection attributes::

   Name: <aname>
   Host: localhost
   Port: 5432
   Database: <database>
   SSL mode: Disable
   Username: www-data
   Password: www-data

Directly on the server
----------------------

For that you should ask the sysadmins to be able to access to the
postgres port on the server from your infra.

Then use the following connection attributes::

   Name: <aname>
   Host: <server>
   Port: 5432
   Database: <database>
   SSL mode: require
   Username: www-data
   Password: www-data

Deploy notes
************

TODO
