doc/integrator/create_application.rst, before:

.. _integrator_create_application:

Create a new application
========================

Creating a new c2cgeoportal application is done by applying two Paste skeletons
(a.k.a. templates and scaffolds). These skeletons are provided by the
``c2cgeoportal`` package. So to be able to create a c2cgeoportal application
the ``c2cgeoportal`` package must be installed.

If you already have a c2cgeoportal application installed, and if that
application uses a version of c2cgeoportal that fits you, then you don't need
to install c2cgeoportal again. Instead, you can use the version of c2cgeoportal
that is already alongside the existing c2cgeoportal application.

.. note::

    Some c2cgeoportal applications provide their own skeletons. For example
    a *parent* application may provide a skeleton for creating *child*
    applications. In that case, the c2cgeoportal skeletons, as well as the
    application skeletons, should be applied.

Project structure
-----------------

In the simple case the root directory of the application is the directory
created by the c2cgeoportal skeletons (the ``c2cgeoportal_create`` and
``c2cgeoportal_update`` skeletons). Projects following a parent/child
architecture may use a different structure. Here's an example of a structure
for a project composed of a main application and sub-applications::

    <root>
      +- <main_project>
      +- <first_sub_project>
      +- <second_sub_project>
      +- ...

Here ``<root>`` is the root of the Git tree.

Install c2cgeoportal
--------------------

This step is required if you cannot, or do not want, to create the c2cgeoportal
application from an existing one. For example, if you are creating a child
application from an existing parent application, it means you already have
``c2cgeoportal`` installed, so you can just skip this section, and directly go
to the next.

Also, installing ``c2cgeoportal``, as described in this section, requires
access to the c2cgeoportal GitHub repository. If you can't view the
https://github.com/camptocamp/c2cgeoportal page in your browser that means you
do not have the required permissions. Please contact Camptocamp in that case.

To install ``c2cgeoportal`` you first need to clone the c2cgeoportal repository
from GitHub:

.. prompt:: bash

    git clone https://github.com/camptocamp/c2cgeoportal.git
    cd c2cgeoportal

Then you should checkout the branch or tag of the version you want to install:

.. prompt:: bash

    git checkout <branch|tag>
    git submodule update --init

``<branch|tag>`` can be ``1.4`` for the latest version of the 1.4 branch,
``1.4.0`` for the first stable 1.4 version.

Build c2cgeoportal:

.. prompt:: bash

    make build

List existing skeletons
-----------------------

To list the available skeletons/templates use the following command, either
from the root directory of c2cgeoportal (if you've followed the instructions
from the previous section), or from the root directory of the existing
c2cgeoportal application you want to create the new application from:

.. prompt:: bash

    .build/venv/bin/pcreate -l

You should at least see the c2cgeoportal skeletons:

* c2cgeoportal_create
* c2cgeoportal_update

Create the new application
--------------------------

The first step in the project creation is to chose a project name
``<project>``, and a package name ``<package>``.

Normally the project name should be the same name as the Git repository name.

The package name should not contain an underscore (``_``) because of an
issue with Pip.

To create the application first apply the ``c2cgeoportal_create`` skeleton:

.. prompt:: bash

    .build/venv/bin/pcreate -s c2cgeoportal_create ../<project> package=<package>

.. note::

    Don't add any '/' after the project name.

You'll be asked to enter the SRID for this project.

This will create a directory named ``<project>`` that will be next to the
``c2cgeoportal`` directory, or to the directory of the application you're
creating this application from.

Now apply the ``c2cgeoportal_update`` skeleton:

.. prompt:: bash

    .build/venv/bin/pcreate -s c2cgeoportal_update ../<project> package=<package>

.. note::

    Don't add any '/' after the project name.

The ``c2cgeoportal_update`` scaffold is also used to update the
application. The files generated by this skeleton are prefixed with
``CONST_``, which means they are *constant* files that should not be changed.
Following this rule is important for easier updates.


Go to your new project:

.. prompt:: bash

    cd ../<project>

.. note:: For Windows:

   A special egg is available for Windows. It may be used by replacing
   ``'c2cgeoportal'`` by ``'c2cgeoportal-win'`` in  the ``setup.py`` file.

``pcreate`` doesn't conserve file permission, so restore it manually:

.. prompt:: bash

    chmod +x deploy/hooks/pre-restore-database.mako
    chmod +x deploy/hooks/post-restore-code

In the ``CONST_requirements.txt`` file make sure that c2cgeoportal version is set:

.. code::

   c2cgeoportal = <version>

.. note:: For Windows:

   .. code::

      c2cgeoportal-win = <version>

      in the ``CONST_requirements_windows.txt``

With ``<version>`` the egg version you want to use, normally it should be the same
number as the ``tag`` you use to checkout ``c2cgeoportal``.

.. note::

    If this application is a child of a parent/child architecture you should
    fill the ``parent_schema`` and the ``parent_instanceid`` in the
    ``vars_<package>.yaml`` file.

    In a parent/child architecture one instance of the application is the
    parent, the others are children. Child instances display layers
    served by the parent instance. Parent and child instances share
    the same database, but use dedicated schemas within that database.

.. note:: For Windows:

    The ``<project>/static/mobile/touch.tar.gz`` archive must be uncompressed
    and then removed.

Put the application under revision control
------------------------------------------

Now is a good time to put the application source code under revision
control (Git preferably).

To add a new child in an existing repository
............................................

Add the project:

.. prompt:: bash

    cd ..
    git add <package>/

Add the CGXP submodule:

.. prompt:: bash

    git submodule add git@github.com:camptocamp/cgxp.git <project>/<package>/static/lib/cgxp
    git submodule foreach git checkout <version>
    git submodule foreach git submodule update --init

``-b <version>`` forces to use the CGXP branch ``<version>``.
Branches are available starting at version ``1.3``.

Commit and push on the main repository:

.. prompt:: bash

    git commit -m "Initial commit of <project>"
    git push origin master

To add a project in a new repository
....................................

Add the project:

.. prompt:: bash

    git init
    git add *
    git remote add origin git@github.com:camptocamp/<project>.git

Add the CGXP submodule:

.. prompt:: bash

    git submodule add https://github.com/camptocamp/cgxp.git <package>/static/lib/cgxp
    git submodule foreach git checkout <version>
    git submodule foreach git submodule update --init

``-b <version>`` forces to use the CGXP branch ``<version>``.
Branches are available starting at version ``1.3``.

Commit and push on the main repository:

.. prompt:: bash

    git commit -m "Initial commit"
    git push origin master

Configure the application
-------------------------

As the integrator you need to edit the ``vars_<package>.yaml`` and
``<package>.mk`` files to configure the application.

Don't miss to add your changes to git:

.. prompt:: bash

    git add vars_<package>.yaml
    git commit -m "Configure the project"
    git push origin master

.. note::

    If you use the check collector don't miss to add the new child to
    the parent site check_collector configuration.

.. note::

   Additional notes for Windows users:

   To have a working PNG print you should get and edit the file
   ``print/WEB-INF/classes/imagemagick-mapfish-spring-application-context-override.xml``,
   get it:

   .. prompt:: bash

        wget https://raw.github.com/mapfish/mapfish-print/master/sample-spring/imagemagick/WEB-INF/classes/imagemagick-mapfish-spring-application-context-override.xml
        mv imagemagick-mapfish-spring-application-context-override.xml print/WEB-INF/classes/
        git add print/WEB-INF/classes/imagemagick-mapfish-spring-application-context-override.xml

   and replace the lines::

		<!-- <property name="cmd">
			<value>C:\Program Files\ImageMagick-6.7.8-Q16\convert</value>
		</property> -->

   by those ones::

		<property name="cmd">
			<value>C:\Program Files\ImageMagick-6.7.8-Q16\convert</value>
		</property>

   with the right path to ``convert``.


After creation and minimal setup the application is ready to be installed.
Then follow the sections in the install application guide:

* :ref:`integrator_install_application_create_schema`.
* :ref:`integrator_install_application_create_user`.
* :ref:`integrator_install_application_install_application`.

.. note::

    If you create the main instance you should do the whole
    database creation as described in :ref:`integrator_install_application`,
    except the 'Get the application source tree' chapter.


Create a multi-instance project
-------------------------------

In some cases we want to create applications based on very similar code and settings.

To be consistent with c2cgeoportal terminology we will use the words `project`
to refer to the whole project and `instance` for a dedicated configuration of
the project.

This procedure will deal with:

* One folder per instance ``mapfile/<instance>``.
* One configuration file for the project ``vars_<project>.yaml``.
* One configuration file for each instance ``vars_<instance>.yaml``.
* One make file for the project ``<project>.mk``.
* One make file for each instance ``<instance>.mk``.
* One Makefile generator for each developer and server ``<user>.mk``.
* One additional CSS file for each instance ``<package>/static/css/proj-<instance>.css``.

Create the project
..................

1. Configure the instances in ``vars_<package>.yaml`` as follows:

  .. code:: yaml

    vars:

        ...
        instance: INSTANCE

        external_themes_url: http://{host}/{parent_instanceid}/wsgi/themes
        external_mapserv_url: http://{host}/{parent_instanceid}/mapserv

        tiles_url: http://{host}/{parent_instanceid}/tiles

        instances:
        - instance: a name
        ...

    interpreted:
        environment:
        - instance

2. Create the ``<instance>.mk`` files:

    .. code:: make

        INSTANCE = <instance>
        VARS_FILE = vars_$(INSTANCE).yaml
        include <package>.mk

3. In ``<package>.mk`` add a custom CSS and a task to generate the make files:

.. code:: make

    CSS_BASE_FILES += <package>/static/css/proj-$(INSTANCE).css
    CONFIG_VARS += viewer
    ENVIRONMENT_VARS += INSTANCE=${INSTANCE}

4. Define the developer templates as follows (``<user>.mk``):

.. code:: make

    INSTANCE_ID = <user>_$(INSTANCE)
    DEVELOPMENT = TRUE
    include $(INSTANCE).mk

5. Define the host templates as follows (``main.mk``, ``demo.mk``, ``prod.mk``):

.. code::

    INSTANCE_ID = $(INSTANCE)
    include $(INSTANCE).mk

6. Create a ``vars_<instance>.yaml`` file with:

.. code::

    extends: vars_<project>.yaml

    vars:

        # custom instance-specific variables for the viewer
        viewer:
            page_title: <title>
            initial_extent: [<min_x>, <min_y>, <max_x>, <max_y>]
            restricted_extent: [<min_x>, <min_y>, <max_x>, <max_y>]
            default_themes:
            - <theme>
            feature_types:
            - <feature>

        # overwrite project settings
        functionalities:
            anonymous:
                print_template:
                - <template>

7. In the ``<package>/templates/index.html`` file do the following changes:

.. code:: diff

   -        <meta name="keywords" content="<package>, geoportal">
   -        <meta name="description" content="<package> Geoportal Application.">
   +        <meta name="keywords" content="${request.registry.settings['instance']}, geoportal">
   +        <meta name="description" content="${request.registry.settings['viewer']['page_title']}.">

   -        <title><project> Geoportal Application</title>
   +        <title>${request.registry.settings['viewer']['page_title']}</title>

   ...

            <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="${request.static_url('<package>:static/css/proj-widgets.css')}" />
   +        <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="${request.static_url('<package>:static/css/proj-%s.css' % request.registry.settings['instance'])}" />

8. Create the instance CSS file ``<package>/static/css/proj-<instance>.css``:

.. code:: css

   #header-in {
       background: url('../images/<instance>_banner_left.png') top left no-repeat;
       height: <height>px;
   }
   header-out {
       background: url('../images/<instance>_banner_right.png') top right no-repeat;
       background-color: #<color>;
       height: <height>px;
   }

9. In the files ``<package>/templates/api/mapconfig.js``,
    ``<package>/templates/viewer.js`` and ``<package>/templates/edit.js``
    define the ``WMTS_OPTIONS`` url and extent as follows:

.. code:: javascript

    var WMTS_OPTIONS = {
       url: '${tiles_url}',
       ...
    }

    ...

    <%
    initial_extent = request.registry.settings["viewer"]["initial_extent"]
    restricted_extent = request.registry.settings["viewer"]["restricted_extent"]
    %>

    var INITIAL_EXTENT = ${dumps(initial_extent)};
    var RESTRICTED_EXTENT = ${dumps(restricted_extent)};

10. In the ``mapserver/c2cgeoportal.map.mako`` file add the following line:

.. code::

   INCLUDE "${instance}.map"

11. Edit ``deploy/deploy.cfg.mako`` as follows:

.. code:: diff

    [DEFAULT]
   -project = <package>
   +project = ${instance}

    [code]
   -dir = /var/www/vhosts/<project>/private/<project>
   +dir = /var/www/vhosts/<project>/private/${instance}

    [apache]
   -dest = /var/www/vhosts/<project>/conf/<project>.conf
   -content = Include /var/www/vhosts/<project>/private/<project>/apache/*.conf
   +dest = /var/www/vhosts/<project>/conf/${instance}.conf
   +content = Include /var/www/vhosts/<project>/private/${instance}/apache/*.conf

12. Update the deploy configuration as follows:

    .. prompt:: bash

        git mv deploy/hooks/post-restore-code{,.mako}

    Then edit it (`deploy/hooks/post-restore-code.mako`):

    .. code:: diff

        -make -f $TARGET.mk template-clean
        -make -f $TARGET.mk template-generate
        +INSTANCE=${instance} make -f $TARGET.mk template-clean
        +INSTANCE=${instance} make -f $TARGET.mk template-generate

Result
......

Now you can configure the application at instance level in the following places:

* ``mapserver/<instance>.map``
* ``<instance>.mk``
* ``mandant/static/images/<instance>_banner_right.png``
* ``mandant/static/images/<instance>_banner_left.png``
* ``mandant/static/css/proj-<instance>.css``
* ``vars_<instance>.yaml``

Then run the make command for the user/instance you want to setup:

.. prompt:: bash

    INSTANCE=<instance> make -f <user>.mk build

And to switch to an other instance:

.. prompt:: bash

    INSTANCE=<instance> make -f <user>.mk template-clean
    INSTANCE=<instance> make -f <user>.mk build


Dynamic configuration and autogenerated files
---------------------------------------------

Several files are autogenerated, their content depending of the variables you
have set either in the main ``<package>.mk`` or a ``<user>.mk``

The files can have either the extension ``.in`` or ``.mako``

.mako (recommanded)
...................

If you use ``.mako``, you can also use all the possibilites allowed by the Mako
templating system, such as for loops, conditions, sub-templates, etc.

Please see the Mako documentation for details:

http://docs.makotemplates.org/en/latest/

The result is also a file without the .mako.

**Syntax**

In ``.mako`` files, the variable replacement syntax is as follows::

  ${<variablename>}

for example:

* ``${instanceid}``
* ``${directory}``

.in (deprecated, for backward compatibility)
............................................

If you use ``.in``, the variables are simply replaced and a file without the
``.in`` extension is generated.

**Syntax**

In ``.in`` files, the variable replacement syntax is the same as in ``.mako`` files.
But we can get only the non structured variable.

Commit message:

Make project creation easier and faster
Move default layer outside c2cgeoportal.map.mako as they don't work and
integrator couldn't disable it easily (commenting LAYER block are not
working as mako template replace some part with uncomented value).

doc/integrator/create_application.rst, after:

.. _integrator_create_application:

Create a new application
========================

Creating a new c2cgeoportal application is done by applying two Paste skeletons
(a.k.a. templates and scaffolds). These skeletons are provided by the
``c2cgeoportal`` package. So to be able to create a c2cgeoportal application
the ``c2cgeoportal`` package must be installed.

If you already have a c2cgeoportal application installed, and if that
application uses a version of c2cgeoportal that fits you, then you don't need
to install c2cgeoportal again. Instead, you can use the version of c2cgeoportal
that is already alongside the existing c2cgeoportal application.

.. note::

    Some c2cgeoportal applications provide their own skeletons. For example
    a *parent* application may provide a skeleton for creating *child*
    applications. In that case, the c2cgeoportal skeletons, as well as the
    application skeletons, should be applied.

Project structure
-----------------

In the simple case the root directory of the application is the directory
created by the c2cgeoportal skeletons (the ``c2cgeoportal_create`` and
``c2cgeoportal_update`` skeletons). Projects following a parent/child
architecture may use a different structure. Here's an example of a structure
for a project composed of a main application and sub-applications::

    <root>
      +- <main_project>
      +- <first_sub_project>
      +- <second_sub_project>
      +- ...

Here ``<root>`` is the root of the Git tree.

Install c2cgeoportal
--------------------

This step is required if you cannot, or do not want, to create the c2cgeoportal
application from an existing one. For example, if you are creating a child
application from an existing parent application, it means you already have
``c2cgeoportal`` installed, so you can just skip this section, and directly go
to the next.

Also, installing ``c2cgeoportal``, as described in this section, requires
access to the c2cgeoportal GitHub repository. If you can't view the
https://github.com/camptocamp/c2cgeoportal page in your browser that means you
do not have the required permissions. Please contact Camptocamp in that case.

To install ``c2cgeoportal`` you first need to clone the c2cgeoportal repository
from GitHub:

.. prompt:: bash

    git clone https://github.com/camptocamp/c2cgeoportal.git
    cd c2cgeoportal

Then you should checkout the branch or tag of the version you want to install:

.. prompt:: bash

    git checkout <branch|tag>
    git submodule update --init

``<branch|tag>`` can be ``1.4`` for the latest version of the 1.4 branch,
``1.4.0`` for the first stable 1.4 version.

Build c2cgeoportal:

.. prompt:: bash

    make build

List existing skeletons
-----------------------

To list the available skeletons/templates use the following command, either
from the root directory of c2cgeoportal (if you've followed the instructions
from the previous section), or from the root directory of the existing
c2cgeoportal application you want to create the new application from:

.. prompt:: bash

    .build/venv/bin/pcreate -l

You should at least see the c2cgeoportal skeletons:

* c2cgeoportal_create
* c2cgeoportal_update

Create the new application
--------------------------

The first step in the project creation is to chose a project name
``<project>``, and a package name ``<package>``.

Normally the project name should be the same name as the Git repository name.

The package name should not contain an underscore (``_``) because of an
issue with Pip.

To create the application first apply the ``c2cgeoportal_create`` skeleton:

.. prompt:: bash

    .build/venv/bin/pcreate -s c2cgeoportal_create ../<project> package=<package>

.. note::

    Don't add any '/' after the project name.

You'll be asked to enter the SRID and the Apache vhost for this project. Note
that the default extent would be defined directly from the srid. You can change
it later.

.. note::

    You can define these informations directly in the command line using
    parameters:

     .. prompt:: bash

         .build/venv/bin/pcreate -s c2cgeoportal_create ../<project>
         package=<package> srid=21781 extent="420000, 30000, 900000, 350000"
         apache_vhost=geomapfish

This will create a directory named ``<project>`` that will be next to the
``c2cgeoportal`` directory, or to the directory of the application you're
creating this application from.

Now apply the ``c2cgeoportal_update`` skeleton:

.. prompt:: bash

    .build/venv/bin/pcreate -s c2cgeoportal_update ../<project> package=<package>

.. note::

    Don't add any '/' after the project name.

The ``c2cgeoportal_update`` scaffold is also used to update the
application. The files generated by this skeleton are prefixed with
``CONST_``, which means they are *constant* files that should not be changed.
Following this rule is important for easier updates.


Go to your new project:

.. prompt:: bash

    cd ../<project>

.. note:: For Windows:

   A special egg is available for Windows. It may be used by replacing
   ``'c2cgeoportal'`` by ``'c2cgeoportal-win'`` in  the ``setup.py`` file.

``pcreate`` doesn't conserve file permission, so restore it manually:

.. prompt:: bash

    chmod +x deploy/hooks/pre-restore-database.mako
    chmod +x deploy/hooks/post-restore-code

In the ``CONST_requirements.txt`` file make sure that c2cgeoportal version is set:

.. code::

   c2cgeoportal = <version>

.. note:: For Windows:

   .. code::

      c2cgeoportal-win = <version>

      in the ``CONST_requirements_windows.txt``

With ``<version>`` the egg version you want to use, normally it should be the same
number as the ``tag`` you use to checkout ``c2cgeoportal``.

.. note::

    If this application is a child of a parent/child architecture you should
    fill the ``parent_schema`` and the ``parent_instanceid`` in the
    ``vars_<package>.yaml`` file.

    In a parent/child architecture one instance of the application is the
    parent, the others are children. Child instances display layers
    served by the parent instance. Parent and child instances share
    the same database, but use dedicated schemas within that database.

.. note:: For Windows:

    The ``<project>/static/mobile/touch.tar.gz`` archive must be uncompressed
    and then removed.

Put the application under revision control
------------------------------------------

Now is a good time to put the application source code under revision
control (Git preferably).

To add a new child in an existing repository
............................................

Add the project:

.. prompt:: bash

    cd ..
    git add <package>/

Add the CGXP submodule:

.. prompt:: bash

    git submodule add git@github.com:camptocamp/cgxp.git <project>/<package>/static/lib/cgxp
    git submodule foreach git checkout <version>
    git submodule foreach git submodule update --init

``-b <version>`` forces to use the CGXP branch ``<version>``.
Branches are available starting at version ``1.3``.

Commit and push on the main repository:

.. prompt:: bash

    git commit -m "Initial commit of <project>"
    git push origin master

To add a project in a new repository
....................................

Add the project:

.. prompt:: bash

    git init
    git add *
    git remote add origin git@github.com:camptocamp/<project>.git

Add the CGXP submodule:

.. prompt:: bash

    git submodule add https://github.com/camptocamp/cgxp.git <package>/static/lib/cgxp
    git submodule foreach git checkout <version>
    git submodule foreach git submodule update --init

``-b <version>`` forces to use the CGXP branch ``<version>``.
Branches are available starting at version ``1.3``.

Commit and push on the main repository:

.. prompt:: bash

    git commit -m "Initial commit"
    git push origin master

Configure the application
-------------------------

As the integrator you need to edit the ``vars_<package>.yaml`` and
``<package>.mk`` files to configure the application.

Don't miss to add your changes to git:

.. prompt:: bash

    git add vars_<package>.yaml
    git commit -m "Configure the project"
    git push origin master

.. note::

    If you use the check collector don't miss to add the new child to
    the parent site check_collector configuration.

.. note::

   Additional notes for Windows users:

   To have a working PNG print you should get and edit the file
   ``print/WEB-INF/classes/imagemagick-mapfish-spring-application-context-override.xml``,
   get it:

   .. prompt:: bash

        wget https://raw.github.com/mapfish/mapfish-print/master/sample-spring/imagemagick/WEB-INF/classes/imagemagick-mapfish-spring-application-context-override.xml
        mv imagemagick-mapfish-spring-application-context-override.xml print/WEB-INF/classes/
        git add print/WEB-INF/classes/imagemagick-mapfish-spring-application-context-override.xml

   and replace the lines::

		<!-- <property name="cmd">
			<value>C:\Program Files\ImageMagick-6.7.8-Q16\convert</value>
		</property> -->

   by those ones::

		<property name="cmd">
			<value>C:\Program Files\ImageMagick-6.7.8-Q16\convert</value>
		</property>

   with the right path to ``convert``.


After creation and minimal setup the application is ready to be installed.
Then follow the sections in the install application guide:

* :ref:`integrator_install_application_create_schema`.
* :ref:`integrator_install_application_create_user`.
* :ref:`integrator_install_application_install_application`.

.. note::

    If you create the main instance you should do the whole
    database creation as described in :ref:`integrator_install_application`,
    except the 'Get the application source tree' chapter.


Create a multi-instance project
-------------------------------

In some cases we want to create applications based on very similar code and settings.

To be consistent with c2cgeoportal terminology we will use the words `project`
to refer to the whole project and `instance` for a dedicated configuration of
the project.

This procedure will deal with:

* One folder per instance ``mapfile/<instance>``.
* One configuration file for the project ``vars_<project>.yaml``.
* One configuration file for each instance ``vars_<instance>.yaml``.
* One make file for the project ``<project>.mk``.
* One make file for each instance ``<instance>.mk``.
* One Makefile generator for each developer and server ``<user>.mk``.
* One additional CSS file for each instance ``<package>/static/css/proj-<instance>.css``.

Create the project
..................

1. Configure the instances in ``vars_<package>.yaml`` as follows:

  .. code:: yaml

    vars:

        ...
        instance: INSTANCE

        external_themes_url: http://{host}/{parent_instanceid}/wsgi/themes
        external_mapserv_url: http://{host}/{parent_instanceid}/mapserv

        tiles_url: http://{host}/{parent_instanceid}/tiles

        instances:
        - instance: a name
        ...

    interpreted:
        environment:
        - instance

2. Create the ``<instance>.mk`` files:

    .. code:: make

        INSTANCE = <instance>
        VARS_FILE = vars_$(INSTANCE).yaml
        include <package>.mk

3. In ``<package>.mk`` add a custom CSS and a task to generate the make files:

.. code:: make

    CSS_BASE_FILES += <package>/static/css/proj-$(INSTANCE).css
    CONFIG_VARS += viewer
    ENVIRONMENT_VARS += INSTANCE=${INSTANCE}

4. Define the developer templates as follows (``<user>.mk``):

.. code:: make

    INSTANCE_ID = <user>_$(INSTANCE)
    DEVELOPMENT = TRUE
    include $(INSTANCE).mk

5. Define the host templates as follows (``main.mk``, ``demo.mk``, ``prod.mk``):

.. code::

    INSTANCE_ID = $(INSTANCE)
    include $(INSTANCE).mk

6. Create a ``vars_<instance>.yaml`` file with:

.. code::

    extends: vars_<project>.yaml

    vars:

        # custom instance-specific variables for the viewer
        viewer:
            page_title: <title>
            initial_extent: [<min_x>, <min_y>, <max_x>, <max_y>]
            restricted_extent: [<min_x>, <min_y>, <max_x>, <max_y>]
            default_themes:
            - <theme>
            feature_types:
            - <feature>

        # overwrite project settings
        functionalities:
            anonymous:
                print_template:
                - <template>

7. In the ``<package>/templates/index.html`` file do the following changes:

.. code:: diff

   -        <meta name="keywords" content="<package>, geoportal">
   -        <meta name="description" content="<package> Geoportal Application.">
   +        <meta name="keywords" content="${request.registry.settings['instance']}, geoportal">
   +        <meta name="description" content="${request.registry.settings['viewer']['page_title']}.">

   -        <title><project> Geoportal Application</title>
   +        <title>${request.registry.settings['viewer']['page_title']}</title>

   ...

            <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="${request.static_url('<package>:static/css/proj-widgets.css')}" />
   +        <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="${request.static_url('<package>:static/css/proj-%s.css' % request.registry.settings['instance'])}" />

8. Create the instance CSS file ``<package>/static/css/proj-<instance>.css``:

.. code:: css

   #header-in {
       background: url('../images/<instance>_banner_left.png') top left no-repeat;
       height: <height>px;
   }
   header-out {
       background: url('../images/<instance>_banner_right.png') top right no-repeat;
       background-color: #<color>;
       height: <height>px;
   }

9. In the files ``<package>/templates/api/mapconfig.js``,
    ``<package>/templates/viewer.js`` and ``<package>/templates/edit.js``
    define the ``WMTS_OPTIONS`` url and extent as follows:

.. code:: javascript

    var WMTS_OPTIONS = {
       url: '${tiles_url}',
       ...
    }

    ...

    <%
    initial_extent = request.registry.settings["viewer"]["initial_extent"]
    restricted_extent = request.registry.settings["viewer"]["restricted_extent"]
    %>

    var INITIAL_EXTENT = ${dumps(initial_extent)};
    var RESTRICTED_EXTENT = ${dumps(restricted_extent)};

10. In the ``mapserver/c2cgeoportal.map.mako`` file add the following line:

.. code::

   INCLUDE "${instance}.map"

11. Edit ``deploy/deploy.cfg.mako`` as follows:

.. code:: diff

    [DEFAULT]
   -project = <package>
   +project = ${instance}

    [code]
   -dir = /var/www/vhosts/<project>/private/<project>
   +dir = /var/www/vhosts/<project>/private/${instance}

    [apache]
   -dest = /var/www/vhosts/<project>/conf/<project>.conf
   -content = Include /var/www/vhosts/<project>/private/<project>/apache/*.conf
   +dest = /var/www/vhosts/<project>/conf/${instance}.conf
   +content = Include /var/www/vhosts/<project>/private/${instance}/apache/*.conf

12. Update the deploy configuration as follows:

    .. prompt:: bash

        git mv deploy/hooks/post-restore-code{,.mako}

    Then edit it (`deploy/hooks/post-restore-code.mako`):

    .. code:: diff

        -make -f $TARGET.mk template-clean
        -make -f $TARGET.mk template-generate
        +INSTANCE=${instance} make -f $TARGET.mk template-clean
        +INSTANCE=${instance} make -f $TARGET.mk template-generate

Result
......

Now you can configure the application at instance level in the following places:

* ``mapserver/<instance>.map``
* ``<instance>.mk``
* ``mandant/static/images/<instance>_banner_right.png``
* ``mandant/static/images/<instance>_banner_left.png``
* ``mandant/static/css/proj-<instance>.css``
* ``vars_<instance>.yaml``

Then run the make command for the user/instance you want to setup:

.. prompt:: bash

    INSTANCE=<instance> make -f <user>.mk build

And to switch to an other instance:

.. prompt:: bash

    INSTANCE=<instance> make -f <user>.mk template-clean
    INSTANCE=<instance> make -f <user>.mk build


Dynamic configuration and autogenerated files
---------------------------------------------

Several files are autogenerated, their content depending of the variables you
have set either in the main ``<package>.mk`` or a ``<user>.mk``

The files can have either the extension ``.in`` or ``.mako``

.mako (recommanded)
...................

If you use ``.mako``, you can also use all the possibilites allowed by the Mako
templating system, such as for loops, conditions, sub-templates, etc.

Please see the Mako documentation for details:

http://docs.makotemplates.org/en/latest/

The result is also a file without the .mako.

**Syntax**

In ``.mako`` files, the variable replacement syntax is as follows::

  ${<variablename>}

for example:

* ``${instanceid}``
* ``${directory}``

.in (deprecated, for backward compatibility)
............................................

If you use ``.in``, the variables are simply replaced and a file without the
``.in`` extension is generated.

**Syntax**

In ``.in`` files, the variable replacement syntax is the same as in ``.mako`` files.
But we can get only the non structured variable.
