doc/integrator/https.rst, before:

.. _integrator_https:

HTTPS
=====

If your application is accessed in HTTPS, you have to make sure that all URLs
generated by the application (CSS and Javascript files, images, MapServer
requests, etc.) use the HTTPS scheme as well. Otherwise the browser will
prompt "unsecure content" warnings.

If the application is placed behind some proxy that removes the SSL encryption
(plain HTTP is used between the proxy and the server) then some specific
configuration is required both on the c2cgeoportal application, and on the
proxy:

* The proxy should add a specific header to the requests. For example ``X-Https
  on`` (``X-Https`` is the header name, and ``on`` is the header value).
* To make c2cgeoportal generate HTTPS URLs when requests with this header are
  received you will set the `HTTPS` environment variable by adding the
  following in the ``apache/wsgi.conf.mako`` file in the ``<location ...>``
  section, in our example::

    SetEnvIf    X-Https on HTTPS=1

In Mako templates, if you need to know what scheme is used, you may test the
value of ``request.scheme``. For example::

    var WMTS_OPTIONS = {
    % if request.scheme == 'https':
        url: 'https://my.wmts.server/'
    % else:
        url: 'http://my.wmts.server/'
    % endif
    /* ... */
    };

Loading non https external resources
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

If you want to load non https external resources in your https application, you
must use the resourceproxy service and add the list of hosts you want to access
in your project `vars_<project>.yaml` configuration file:

.. code:: yaml

    resourceproxy:
        # list of urls from which it is safe to load content
        targets:
          #exempletargetname: http://www.camptocamp.com/?param1=%s&param2=%s
          rfinfo: http://www.rfinfo.vd.ch/rfinfo.php?no_commune=%s&no_immeuble=%s

Then you can access resources by building urls using the following schema:
``http://<host>/<instanceid>/wsgi/resourceproxy?target=<targetname>&values=(<valueparam1>,...)``.

For example:

``http://geoportail.camptocamp.com/main/wsgi/resourceproxy?target=rfinfo&values=(175,2633)``

Commit message:

Support of ssl and application on same server
The ssl chapter explain how to configure an application behind a proxy
with https url.

Most use case now, locate the ssl certificat on the same server as the
application, trigger new issue which should be adressed by this
new section in documentation.

doc/integrator/https.rst, after:

.. _integrator_https:

HTTPS
=====

If your application is accessed in HTTPS, you have to make sure that all URLs
generated by the application (CSS and Javascript files, images, MapServer
requests, etc.) use the HTTPS scheme as well. Otherwise the browser will
prompt "unsecure content" warnings.

There are two ways to manage this:

* application behind a proxy
* application and SSL certificate on the same server

Application behind a proxy
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

If the application is placed behind some proxy that removes the SSL encryption
(plain HTTP is used between the proxy and the server) then some specific
configuration is required both on the c2cgeoportal application, and on the
proxy:

* The proxy should add a specific header to the requests. For example ``X-Https
  on`` (``X-Https`` is the header name, and ``on`` is the header value).
* To make c2cgeoportal generate HTTPS URLs when requests with this header are
  received you will set the `HTTPS` environment variable by adding the
  following in the ``apache/wsgi.conf.mako`` file in the ``<location ...>``
  section, in our example::

    SetEnvIf    X-Https on HTTPS=1

In Mako templates, if you need to know what scheme is used, you may test the
value of ``request.scheme``. For example::

    var WMTS_OPTIONS = {
    % if request.scheme == 'https':
        url: 'https://my.wmts.server/'
    % else:
        url: 'http://my.wmts.server/'
    % endif
    /* ... */
    };

Application and SSL certificate on the same server
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

If the SSL certificate and the application are located on the same server, all
requests will be redirect to https. So you should change the scheme to https
for all url except for some parameters that should always use http (actually
all request on localhost): *url* parameter in tilegeneration configuration.

If you apply ssl encryption on your application, you should take care of the
tiles url to use https scheme to avoid secure and insecure contents: change
*tiles_url* in the vars_xxx.yaml file.

Finaly, you should redirect all http request to https scheme. On Camptocamp's
server, this should be asked to our sysadmin team.

In case you load http external resources into your application, you should use
resourceproxy service as described below.

Loading non https external resources
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

If you want to load non https external resources in your https application, you
must use the resourceproxy service and add the list of hosts you want to access
in your project `vars_<project>.yaml` configuration file:

.. code:: yaml

    resourceproxy:
        # list of urls from which it is safe to load content
        targets:
          #exempletargetname: http://www.camptocamp.com/?param1=%s&param2=%s
          rfinfo: http://www.rfinfo.vd.ch/rfinfo.php?no_commune=%s&no_immeuble=%s

Then you can access resources by building urls using the following schema:
``http://<host>/<instanceid>/wsgi/resourceproxy?target=<targetname>&values=(<valueparam1>,...)``.

For example:

``http://geoportail.camptocamp.com/main/wsgi/resourceproxy?target=rfinfo&values=(175,2633)``
